<p1 Liberty University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1971. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 49,863, its setting is city, and the campus size is 7,000 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Liberty University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its tuition and fees are $23,020 

<p1 L University p1> has been Training Champions for Christ since 1971, producing graduates with the values, knowledge, and skills required to impact the world. The secret to its success lies in a solid commitment to biblical truth. Upon this foundation, Liberty has built a world-class university that offers excellent academics, NCAA Division I athletics, an exciting social atmosphere, and an environment that encourages spiritual growth. With more than 300 unique areas of study, Liberty is approved by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia and is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). Liberty's 6,800-acre campus is undergoing an extensive $400 million dollar rebuilding, including the construction of the Jerry Falwell Library, the first building to bear the name of the university's founder, Dr. <n Jerry n> <n Falwell n>, Sr. Also included in the expansion is The Center for Medical and Health Sciences which will house the new School of Osteopathic Medicine, several new academic buildings, a cathedral-style prayer chapel, and additional athletic facilities. For students who live on campus, Liberty has several options with a variety of resident amenities, including laundry facilities, fully equipped kitchens, en suite bathrooms, and a plethora of dining options. The LaHaye Student Center includes a theater, basketball courts, and an NCAA regulation-size pool. More than 12,600 resident students study at Liberty representing over 80 countries and all 50 states. Liberty invites new students to take a closer look at the university by attending College For A Weekend (CFAW) events. Choosing a college is about more than just getting an education...it's about securing a successful future. Liberty is located in Lynchburg, Va. along the foothills of the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains, a region rich in history, culture, and outdoor recreational opportunities. Students enjoy nearby hiking, kayaking, water skiing, snow skiing, whitewater rafting, fishing, snowboarding, and more.
