<p2 University of West Georgia p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1906. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 10,753, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 645 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of West Georgia's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,188 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $20,406 (2015-16).

The <p2 UWG p2>, situated on a 645-acre campus 50 miles west of Atlanta, is committed to academic excellence and community engagement. It is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) and many degree programs hold accreditations with their respective discipline s accrediting body. In early 2016, the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education officially upgraded UWG s classification to Doctoral Research University R3. Respected, experienced faculty provide innovative instruction in more than 80 degree programs at the bachelor, post-bachelor, master, post-master, education specialist and doctorate levels with academic and personal resource centers that provide a support network designed to enhance student success. Along with traditional classroom instruction, several degree programs may be completed entirely online. Still other degree programs offer courses in both the traditional and the electronic formats on a course-by-course basis. In addition to the main campus, instruction is offered at instructional sites located in Atlanta, Newnan, Douglasville, and Rome. The first program of its kind in the state, the Honors College provides a distinctive curriculum to select incoming freshmen and returning students with a GPA of <n 3.2 n> or above. Successful completion of these requirements is a mark of scholarly excellence and is appropriately recognized at the commencement ceremony and on all official UWG transcripts and diplomas. Once enrolled, UWG offers additional academic rigor through countless faculty-directed research and professional development opportunities as well as field-based and internship experiences. To enhance the degree experience, UWG has developed an engaged campus community full of events, public service activities, and volunteer opportunities. Events range from guest lectures to poetry readings, panel discussions of timely topics to theatre and musical presentations, faculty-led discussions to sporting events. UWG students perform research, outrank private university debate teams, and submit winning tee shirt designs for the Peachtree Road Race. They study overseas, develop local outreach programs, and build robots. UWG s football team most recently made history as the first Division II team at UWG to gain the No. 1 spot in the nation, the men s basketball team recently won the fourth Gulf South Conference championship in school history, and the cheerleaders have won 19 national competitions. Visit the official website at <n www. n> westga.edu to learn more about opportunities offered at UWG.
