<p2 University of Arkansas--Little Rock p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1927. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 9,575, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 250 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Arkansas--Little Rock's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,165 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $19,235.

The <p2 UALR p2> is a metropolitan research university that provides accessibility to a quality education through flexible learning, outstanding internship opportunities and an excellent faculty. The main campus sits on 250 wooded acres in Little Rock s midtown district featuring the Coleman <n Creek n> greenway and the 4.5 acre Trail of Tears Park, part of the national historic trail. UALR offers 173 programs of study at the graduate and undergraduate level, with about 10% of its <n baccalaureate n> programs available totally online. As one of 115 U.S. colleges and universities designated by the Carnegie Foundation with a community engagement focus, UALR supports initiatives such as service learning, internships, and other high impact learning experiences that connect students and faculty to community businesses and organizations. UALR has also been designated as a military-friendly campus by Victory Media for six-years in a row and is now a new Air University Associate to Baccalaureate Cooperative Partner allowing military students the ability to take their general education mobile classes through UALR to get their Community College of the Air Force degree and then continue on seamlessly to their bachelors degree as part of the program. All military students pay in-state tuition and no application fee. Other special recognitions include the MBA program ranked 49th most affordable in the nation, the Rehabilitation Counseling program ranked in the top 25 best programs by U.S. News & World Report, and the Department of Computer Science designated a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance/Cyber Defense Education by the National Security Agency and as one of the top 50 Most Innovative Computer Science Departments by Computer Science Degree Hub. The William H. Bowen School of Law on the downtown campus is recognized as one of the premier law schools in public service law. Faculty and students at UALR are spearheading research in areas such as nanotechnology, information quality, virtual reality, environmental engineering, and cyber security. In addition to the nationally recognized Center for Integrative Nanotechnology Sciences, UALR features several other top research centers including the George W. Donaghey Emerging Analytics Center, the Institute on Race and Ethnicity, the Center for Arkansas History and Culture, the Sequoyah National Research Center, the Institute of Government, the Institute for Economic Advancement, and the Jodie Mahony Center for Gifted Education. 
