<p2 University of North Carolina--Charlotte p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1946. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 22,732, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 1,000 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 UNCC p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 202. Its in-state tuition and fees are $6,617 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $20,193 (2016-17).
According to the school, The University of North Carolina at Charlotte is the region's leading public higher education institution and urban research university, and a driving force of growth, discovery and innovation for the metro Carolinas. UNC Charlotte provides a pioneering learning experience that prepares graduates to become active citizens of the world. Frequently recognized for contributions to higher education, and for outstanding faculty and the leadership role it plays in the region, UNC Charlotte is proud to offer many programs and services on and off campus to support students by fostering a fundamental understanding of diversity and community. Founded in 1946, the campus sits on 1000 <n wooded n> acres with approximately 85 buildings just 8 miles from Uptown Charlotte. It is the largest institution of higher education in the Charlotte region and the fourth largest of 16 constituent members of the University of North Carolina. A wide array of bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees are offered in the seven colleges: Liberal Arts and Sciences, Arts + Architecture, Business, Computing and Informatics, Education, Engineering, and Health & Human Services. We provide a pioneering learning experience that prepares graduates to become active citizens of the world. UNC <n Charlotte n> is renowned for business-university partnerships engaged in applied research in exciting fields such as engineering, business, architecture, and information technology, involving both undergraduate and graduate students in cutting-edge real-world experiences. The UNC Charlotte campus is like a small, thriving city full of dynamic, creative, and diverse people who are immersed in planning projects, starting conversations, sharing ideas, and making things happen. More than 5,000 students live on campus, and have the opportunity to get involved in more than 350 student organizations. Additionally, UNC Charlotte currently has 18 men's and women's athletic teams that compete in the NCAA's Conference USA. Committed to the pursuit of excellence, 49er athletes succeed on and off the courts and fields. Ultimately, the true foundation of a university is the great minds and enthusiasm of its students and faculty. UNC Charlotte is proud to have approximately 1,000 passionate and committed faculty members (of the full-time instructional faculty, nearly 85% hold the highest degrees attainable in their fields). Our more than 100,000 living alumni -- with an addition of 4,000 to 4,500 new alumni annually -- are a testament to the strength of the students in our university community.
