<p2 Wright State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1964. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 12,722, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 557 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Wright State p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,730 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $17,098 (2016-17).

Named after early aviation pioneers <n Orville n> and Wilbur Wright, Wright State University continues their tradition of innovation. A rich and dynamic community of nearly 18,000 students on two campuses, Wright State s mission is to transform the lives of its students and the communities it serves. Wright State offers more than 200 undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, and professional degree programs through eight colleges and three schools, including Professional Psychology and the Boonshoft School of Medicine. The university s state-of-the-art facilities are located in a beautiful 557-acre wooded setting. More than 250 student clubs and organizations give vibrancy to campus life. Wright State is one of an elite group of universities doing research in cutting edge fields -- making new discoveries that are improving the world around us, and collaborating with corporations and businesses to create new jobs and provide qualified graduates for the workforce. Most classes are small and taught by fully affiliated faculty members. A Carnegie classified Research University, the Wright State faculty is dedicated to advancing the frontiers of knowledge as well as applying it to real problems. Students gain hands-on experience through a variety of community-based programs, cooperative education, internships, service-learning, and research projects. Wright State is a national leader in accommodating the needs of students with disabilities. Most of the campus buildings are connected by a unique underground tunnel system, easing travel for students, faculty and staff with physical disabilities. The Wingerd Service Dog Park is the first of its kind in the nation, dedicated for service dogs that assist Wright State students.For the 37th consecutive year, Wright State has brought home top awards from the National Model United Nations conference, a record unmatched by any other four-year college or university in the country.Wright State received the 2015 Community Engagement Classification from the Carnegie Foundation and has been named to the President s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll for five consecutive years. Wright State offers more than 100 service-learning courses and students complete more than 600,000 volunteer hours each year.Wright State is widely recognized for its fine and performing arts. The Center for Collaborative Education, Leadership, and Innovation in the Arts is an Ohio Center of Excellence.The Wright State Boonshoft School of Medicine is affiliated with seven major teaching hospitals and more than 20 other health-care institutions.Located next door to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Wright State serves more than 700 veterans and military-connected students. Offering an array of resources to help those students transition to campus, Wright State has been recognized as military friendly for five consecutive years by <n G.I. n> Jobs and Military Advanced Education. Led by President David R. Hopkins, himself a first-generation college graduate, Wright State extends opportunities to many from underserved populations. As a result, nearly half of Wright State s students are the first in their families to attend college.Drawn to the University Honors Program and opportunities for hands-on experience such as research, more than 300 high school valedictorians and salutatorians attend Wright State. 
